# OSS Based Compliance Tooling Face to Face Meeting

| Key | Value |
| --- | ----- |
| Date: | April 5th 2019 from 09:30 am till 16:30 pm |
| Location: | Offices of Here in Berlin, Invaliden Str. 116, 10117 Berlin, Germany |
| Attendees: | (in seating order) Thomas Steenbergen, Michael C. Jaeger, Sebastian Schuberth, Dirk Riehle, Michael Picht, Mirko Boehm, Andreas Bauer, Stefan Gustafsson, Henri Tanskanen, Kalle Soranko, Oliver Fendt, Hanna Modica, Lars Geyer-Blaumeiser Remotely: Helio, Marcel, Philippe |
| Main Project Space: | https://github.com/Open-Source-Compliance/Sharing-creates-value/issues |
| Previous Meetings: | https://github.com/Open-Source-Compliance/Sharing-creates-value/tree/master/Tooling-Landscape/Meeting-Material |
| Mailing List: | oss-based-compliance-tooling@groups.io |

## Agenda

(see also the mailing list for circulated agenda)

## Welcome

* Opening and explaining the meeting is under "Chatham house": https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chatham_House_Rule
* Review Agenda
* Welcome round

## Tooling Updates

* 3 mins reach (timed) - presenters from the projects respetively
* sw360 - https://github.com/eclipse/sw360
* sw360Antenna - https://github.com/eclipse/antenna
* FOSSology - https://github.com/fossology/fossology
* Vulas - https://github.com/sap/vulnerability-assessment-kb
* qmstr - https://github.com/QMSTR/qmstr
* Scan code - https://github.com/nexB/scancode-toolkit
* Vulnerable Code - https://github.com/nexB/vulnerablecode
* package url - https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec
* SPDX - https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec
* Clearly Defined - https://github.com/clearlydefined/clearlydefined
* Open Source Review Toolkit - https://github.com/heremaps/oss-review-toolkit

## Updates on the Group

* TODO Michael put code of conduct and put it for discussion
* TODO Thomas make a dedicated call for Swedish group "Industrial Open Source Network" in OSS License Compliance
* Introduction of Validos and Double Open
  * Validos around 12 companies and organisations involved, http://www.validos.org/en/
  * double open: "making compliance process compatible with continuous integration", https://www.doubleopen.org
  * survey of background information of the tools and utilities in OSS license compliance
* Pointing to the annual survey from the TODO group.

## Break

* from 11:15 to 11:30

## Questions and Answers

* see the board photograph

## Process Discussion

* suggestion: BPMN would be appreciated as modelling notation
* Then Process Collection (see photograph)
  * pointing out relevant processes
  * prioritisation of relevant processes
* TODO Michael J. make a telco on the process next steps

## Lunch

* from 13:00 to 14:00
* after lunch: review the agenda

## Data Model

* Showing the data model from: https://github.com/Open-Source-Compliance/Sharing-creates-value/blob/master/Tooling-Landscape/Unanimous-Understanding/Data%20Structures/DataExchangeFormat-UML-Class-Diagram.png
* Clarifying that the data model is there for coordinating tools and parties
* Clarifying that component is digital artefact.
* Feedback is that there are lot of opportunities for specialisation (for example, licenses vs. terms of use)
* Discussion on checking how to automate checking that obligations are actually fulfilled. First step of automation is about internal checks and documentation of fulfilment
* Dual license fulfilment: how to do you record a choice of dual licensed open source components? A. licensing decisions must be made explicit. one solution could be to use acknowledgement functionality
* Obligations fulfilment should be covered (in the model)
* Discussing contributions: how to cover this in the model?
* For changes on the data model: please file an issue on the repo

## EU Project FASTEN

* It is about detailed dependency modelling
* Co-funded by the EU: Horizon 2020 programme
* See https://www.fasten-project.eu
* Project planning involves 42 person years
* Idea for this project to reuse existing modules / oss projects
* TODO Mirko send pointer to FASTEN to the mailing list
* It will be also the new project in "Community Bridge"

## Break

* from 15:20 to 15:30

## Integration Demo Lars

* sw360 and sw360antenna Demo
* showing generated compliance documentation
* showing to add license information in sw360, after next sw360antenna run: updated.

## Participation criteria

* Group should use contributor covenant https://www.contributor-covenant.org
* New members: using poll from now on
* Majority of the poll decides it
* A single "no" results to put it on the agenda for the next in person meeting (just needs face to face discussion)
* Mind that all content shall be licensed CC-BY-SA-4.0

## Next meeting

* next meeting proposed for Ulm
* Proposed time for doodle: last week of June and first week of July
